---
title: "Oferta pracy: Technical Writer (Akamai) – Kraków"
date: "2020-03-25"
tags:
  - "oferty-pracy"
  - "praca"
  - "kariera"
  - "praca"
coverImage: "Akamai_logo_big.jpg"
---

W dzisiejszych czasach trudniej znaleźć firmę od której więcej zależy.
Słyszeliśmy też, że wiele można się tam nauczyć!

Nie tylko zaawansowane usługi dostarczania i zabezpieczania treści w internecie,
ale również codzienna komunikacja, edukacja i praca polegają na systemach
Akamai. Nic dziwnego że szukają dodatkowych rąk do pracy, również w obszarze
dokumentacji technicznej.

Poniżej oferta, aplikować możecie na dwa sposoby:

- Przez
  [stronę z ogłoszeniem](https://akamaicareers.inflightcloud.com/app/ui/jobdetails/aka_ext/020637)
- Pisząc maila na jbodzioc(at)akamai.com

Może być fajnie ;)

https://youtu.be/RcTkSdsNF5k

---

# Technical Writer

### **About the Team** 

Akamai’s User Experience team designs our customers’ end-to-end experience.The
experience occurs through APIs and our customer portal, “The Control Center,”
and is in service of our customers, channel partners, and internal staff. As the
collective voice of the user, the Team strives to create connected and intuitive
experiences that accelerate both end users and developers to achieve success.

### **About the Role** 

We’re looking for a Technical Writer with a passion for user-driven
documentation. In this role, you will join a global group of writers engaged in
developing world-class documentation for our customer-facing products and
internal documentation that is aimed at the Akamai engineering community. We
consider user assistance a critical piece of the product and look for driven,
curious communicators whose goal is to help customers understand and use our
products.

Our Technical Writers work tightly with product managers and developers; they
have the rare opportunity to impact product requirements and design early in the
process. They also take ownership of their projects and deliverables.

### **Responsibilities**

•Work closely with product managers and engineers to plan user-assistance
projects, anticipate documentation needs, solve problems, and communicate
progress

•Work with UX Designers to write and revise text and user assistance for Akamai
UIs

•Drive documentation projects through the complete development cycle: scope
deliverables, set schedules, talk to subject matter experts, write, edit, and
produce customer-facing documentation for both GUI and API environments

•Learn and master new documentation tools, methods, and delivery mechanisms as
the work requires.

### **Basic Qualifications**

•Bachelor’s degree or higher in English, journalism, instructional design,
computer science, or any field of study requiring English writing and critical
analysis

•2+ years of Technical writing experience

•English language fluency

•Proficiency with content design and delivery tools such as Oxygen Editor,
TechSmith software, content management systems, and screen capture applications

•Proficiency with XML and HTML

•Experience in writing technical publications for software-based systems

•Demonstrated basic understanding of programming concepts and the software
delivery lifecycle

•Excellent writing, editing, attention to detail, and problem-solving skills

•Demonstrated ability to communicate and organize task-driven information that
is easy to understand

•Experience in working on customer-facing documentation

### **Desired Qualifications** 

•Experience in using XML and DITA to produce topic-based, reusable content

•Experience in documenting RESTful APIs. Knowledge of JSON, YAML, and Markdown
would be a plus

•Familiarity with front-end technologies and frameworks such as JavaScript,
JQuery, CSS

•Familiarity with content management systems

•Knowledge of SDL Knowledge Center would be a plus

•Familiarity with Camtasia or other screen-cast video tools

•Experience in graphical design and UX

---

Powodzenia!
