---
title:
  "Oferta pracy: Senior Documentation Engineer (Etteplan) - Wrocław lub zdalnie"
date: "2022-05-19"
tags:
  - "oferty-pracy"
  - "praca"
  - "kariera"
  - "praca"
coverImage: "etteplan.png"
---

Mamy dla Was kolejną ciekawą propozycję pracy. Tym razem poszukiwany jest ktoś
na stanowisko Senior Documentation Engineer. Niezbędne informacje znajdziecie
poniżej.

[Etteplan](https://www.etteplan.com/) to dynamicznie rozwijająca się firma
zajmująca się usługami technologicznymi. Specjalizuje się w rozwiązaniach z
zakresu oprogramowania i dokumentacji wbudowanej, inżynierskiej i technicznej.
Do jej klientów należą wiodące światowe firmy z branży produkcyjnej. Etteplan
pomaga im tworzyć lepszy świat poprzez inżynierię, innowacje i cyfryzację.

Firma zatrudnia ponad 3 900 pracowników na całym świecie. Z ponad 80 biurami w
Finlandii, Szwecji, Holandii, Niemczech, Polsce, Danii i Chinach zapewnia
prawdziwie globalne środowisko biznesowe. W wirtualnych zespołach ekspertów
istnieje wiele możliwości rozwoju dla profesjonalistów, których pasją jest nauka
i dzielenie się wiedzą.

Jeśli chodzi o dokumentację to Etteplan oferuje szeroki wybór rozwiązań do
zarządzania
[dokumentacją techniczną](https://www.etteplan.com/pl/uslugi/dokumentacja-techniczna).
Zespoły gotowe są wspierać biznes opracowując
[cyfrową treść produktu](https://www.etteplan.com/pl/uslugi/dokumentacja-techniczna/cyfrowa-dokumentacja-produktu),
a także
przez [lokalizację](https://www.etteplan.com/pl/uslugi/dokumentacja-techniczna/lokalizacja-dopasowanie-regionalne-jezyka-i-tlumaczenia), [wizualizację](https://www.etteplan.com/pl/uslugi/dokumentacja-techniczna/tworzenie-wizualizacji) i
wiele innych usług, które czynią dane cyfrowe skutecznymi i łatwymi w
zarządzaniu.

Aktualnie w Polsce jest ponad 200 pracowników oraz 4 oddziały: Wrocław, Poznań,
Katowice i Gdańsk. Cały zespół technical documentation mieści się obecnie we
Wrocławiu.

Osoby zainteresowane mogą składać aplikację poprzez ogłoszenie, które
znajdziecie
[tutaj](https://candidate.hr-manager.net/ApplicationInit.aspx?cid=1522&ProjectId=149125&DepartmentId=18983&MediaId=5).

---

### Senior Documentation Engineer

We are looking for an experienced person who likes to structure content, work
with 2D/3D and is eager to do administrative work related to spare parts
systems.

**You are the person who:**  • has **very good spoken and written English** •
has an **analytical way of thinking** • has experience in creating 2D
illustrations (preferably in Adobe Illustrator) • has **experience in working
with technical information/BOM** (e.g. automotive industry)

**You have additional assets such as:** • experience in working with 3D models

**We offer:**  • ’Let’s do it’ attitude • Dedicated technical and soft skills
training, 'Friday’s Coffee' lectures • Work in a variety of projects using
different technologies • Flexible working hours • **Working in the office or
remotely**

**And more:**  • A competitive salary adequate to your skills and performance
• Annual salary review • An open and supportive environment • Work with industry
professionals who are willing to share their knowledge and experience • A
relaxed, informal working environment – with people with the same values and
interest • Possibility to create world-changing solutions for industry • We work
across all stages of the product life cycle – from a concept until a
ready-to-use device • Work locally or travel abroad, if you want to • Private
medical care at Medicover • Multisport card • Life insurance • Recruitment bonus
for a recommendation • Lunch subsidy • Company mobile phone • Eyeglasses subsidy
• Relocation support • Online courses and library • Foreign languages lessons
(English, German) • Company car policy

**Why work with us?**    Etteplan is a place for people driven by innovation and
technology. We like to share our passion for trying new things, exchanging ideas
and learning new technologies. Such an environment, experience and technical
knowledge help us to develop and create incredible solutions to our client’s
needs. Unknown and challenges are what we are always looking for – if this is
you, this could be the place for you.

---

Chętnym życzymy powodzenia!
